# [Kabuki Toolkit Cookbook](../readme.md)

## [Issue-driven Development](./readme.md)

Issue-driven Development is an Agile development practice similar to Test-driven Development. The first work to unpack is: what does it mean to drive development? Test Driven Development is a metaphor for being able to change the project’s course similar to driving a car where your unit tests are analogous to a steering wheel; it is the practice of writing your unit tests before the final draft of the Requirements Analysis Document (RAD) and after the first draft of the Software Design Document (SDD). The RAD and SDD drafts show the developers where they are at, where they are going, and TDD allows them to change course before finalizing the RAD and SDD to avoid writing unneeded code and to avoid building bridges you don’t want to or will never cross. The problems with writing a RAD and SDD are they take a lot of time and effort to maintain and it’s really easy for the documents to get out of sync and cause a lot of confusion and disasters.

Much like TDD, Issue Driven Development (IDD) is the ability to use the Issue Tracking System like a steering wheel of a car to change directions. Similar to TDD, you have to be able to see where you’re going to drive safely, so IDD utilizes the Issue Tracking System in order to create institutionalized knowledge that allows the team to see where they are, to see where they’re going, and to change the project’s course with minimum artifacts and maximum integrity. This is done through well-formed commit logs with one commit per issue ticket, where the commit messages are typically copied and pasted from the Issue Ticket Title with the issue ticket number; for example, a GitHub commit message “Add feature ABC. #123” refers to Ticket 123. The details of the Issue ticket should contain some links to show what you’re working on and where the team is going with it. In TDD we would link the developers to the RAD and SDD, but in IDD there probably won’t be a RAD or SDD and you’ll probably actually have an app working so you’ll link directly to test apps, issue tickets, specific code files, config information like Seam Tree indexes, and documents in the repository using a Don’t Repeat Yourself (DRY) methodology that avoids the documentation getting out of sync with the source.

Changes in the project course require Configuration Management. Configuration management is the practice of identifying project artifacts and handling changes systematically so that a system can maintain it’s integrity over time (source: Code Complete). You can’t just willy-nilly go off and do whatever you want in IDD. Each change requires that you mull through the entire project to update everything you just changed. For this reason, IDD requires a Change Control Procedure and Change-control board to ensure that changes to a product or system are introduced in a controlled and coordinated manner. “Changes requests” must be put into a cue of changes that are then sorted through (preferably in a group), prioritized, and scheduled for implementation. Changes can’t happen until the current list of changes and bug reports have been closed. TDD is typically done with a very small number of architects so changes are a lot easier to make and don’t usually require a Change-control board, but they get exponentially harder to make changes as more work on the code is done and eventually TDD benefits from a Change-control board but it is not common practice. In IDD the code is already there that is a lot more labor intensive to change and has a lot more artifacts, so it is imperative to utilize a Change-control board in IDD.

**[<< Previous Section:](./.md) | [Next Section:Issue Trees >>](./issue_trees.md)**

## License

Copyright 2018-9 (C) [Cale McCollough](https://calemccollough.github.io); all rights reserved (R).

This is an open-source document, the Document, that was written by and contains intellectual property that belongs to Cale McCollough. The Document consists of documents, files, source code, technology design files, art, and other content contained this file, folder and kabuki-Script2 GitHub repository, the Repository. The Document is published under a generic non-commercial open-source license, the License, and is for educational and demonstration purposes only. You may use, reproduce, publicly display, and modify the Document so long as you submit and donate fixes and derived intellectual property, the Donated Ideas, to the Repository located at <https://github.com/kabuki-edu/kabuki.toolkit.cookbook> to become part of the Document. You may not sell the Document or derivative works created from the Document without the expressed written permission of Cale McCollough. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, the Document distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
